greetings I'm Christie Hemingway and
it's the middle of October of 2010 and
the question we're hearing the most
about right now this time of the season
is how do i winterize my boat start club
r5 we have definitely got fall coming on
as I've been hard to say so we're going
to show you some of the things that you
can do to secure your hive against the
winter main gets pretty cold so that's a
big point of contention up here so let's
spend a little time to think about it
the first thing is a Goldstar hive comes
with a removable bottom it's held on by
4 L brackets 2 on each end and four
Phillips head screws if you've had your
bottom board off during the summer go
get it you want to put it on if you've
had it lowered you want to go get your
handy dandy Philips head screwdriver and
you're just going to remove those screws
raise your board up and screw them right
back in so that you've closed off this
space there's been some discussion about
whether or not it makes sense to put
something soft between there so that
when you compress it with the bottom
board it seals up tightly we are not too
worried about that we think that we're
cutting down enough of the wind that
it's probably not an issue but you sure
could add something like that if you
wanted don't add something that's got to
absorb a bunch of moisture and suck it
in underneath your hai but that would be
my only percussion so you've raised your
bottom board the next thing you're gonna
want to do is figure out where you put
your corks because you probably haven't
used them all all summer down
symmetrically both star highs got three
entrances in the front door you
definitely do want to leave your bees
and entrance when they get to a day in
the middle of January where it's
actually warm enough for them to fly
they have to be able to get out
that's that day that they'll take a
cleansing flight and if you hang your
sheets out to dry on the clothesline on
that beautiful warm January day you're
going to get
look little specks of beep ooh we don't
go to the bathroom in here all winter so
when they come out on that day that's
their purpose it's called a cleansing
flight so you're gonna limit them though
you only have a one door to take that
flight out through what about insulating
the body of the fight here's a couple
things to know a bone star v has a
little bit of space between the inside
of this roof and the ends of your top
bars in other words I could put my
fingers up here and there's just the
little gap it's not a very big gap but
it's enough for air to move inside the
roof you know they don't want that so
here's what we're gonna do this is a 23
inch wide piece of our 13 Pink Panther
insulation our 13 is about three and a
half inches thick that's about all the
more room you have so don't get any r19
or our 30 it'll be 6 or 9 inches fat and
it won't fit in your roof so our 13 23
inches wide is about right for filling
the space inside your roof we've sealed
it into a clear plastic trash bag in
this case it's a 55-gallon drum liner
we've closed it up with some duct tape
it's not seal it up tight because the
air has to be able to get out of that
bag as you squish it together so let
there be some room for air to escape set
it inside your roof
screw up in here
looks like that alright now we're gonna
pick up the roof bring it over here turn
it over on top of the high get things
lined up
okay this end is on
plastic is tucked up around the edges
okay push it down now at this point
she's got a big poufy piece of
insulation inside there that's gonna
keep your lid lifted up so you don't
want that so here's what we do about
that first thing is not only do you want
your roof to stay attached to the hive
but you want the hive to stay where you
put it on the ground so we went out and
got us a couple of dog cork screws this
is not for opening up you're gone you
screw this into the ground underneath
your hive just like we have that one
there and then you're gonna use this
strap this is an 8 foot long nylon strap
and it has on the end of it a little
metal clip that you can work with your
thumb strap come through the DAAD cork
screw back up here see the end of your
nylon strap the alligator clip and
tighten things up
and that's gonna help draw that down
fill that keep that space full of
insulation good height pretty good
you'll find that after a couple of days
the insulation will compress a bit you
might be back out here tightening this
strap again to make sure everything is
nice and secure as you can get it now
long about this time when it gets cold
when we say cold we mean that it's less
than 48 degrees during the day so bees
aren't flying anymore at those
temperatures your only choice is
beekeeper is to have done everything you
possibly can to see them through the
winter and then sit on your hands until
next spring you can't be going in and
messing with your bees when it's below
48 degrees not a good idea so once
you've got them secured and you're
hopeful for the next spring you're gonna
still see sit still see the same hive of
bees we want you to know that we're with
you on that and we wish you all the luck
and all the love we'll see you next
bring